Review evidence archives

Use one data-only packet description and the same commands for each review.
This tool copies evidence; it has no removal, pruning, upload, repair, workload
execution or dependency-installation operation. Keep all originals. Preserve
historical failures and correction verdicts as separate records.

Requirements: Python 3.12+, macOS /usr/bin/tar (bsdtar), lsof and git. The first
backend preserves modes, nanosecond mtime, UID/GID, file flags, extended attributes
and ACLs. Unsupported platforms or metadata capabilities fail explicitly. The
current readers support regular single-link files and directories; symlinks,
hardlinks and special files are rejected. Legacy link-bearing packets need a
separately tested policy. There is no fallback that strips metadata.

Commands (replace absolute paths and the creation checksum with your own):

  python3 tooling/archive-reviews.py --help
  python3 tooling/archive-reviews.py inspect --descriptor /absolute/packet.json
  python3 tooling/archive-reviews.py create --descriptor /absolute/packet.json --destination /absolute/new-run
  python3 tooling/archive-reviews.py verify --run /absolute/new-run --restore-to /absolute/new-restore --expected-run-sha256 CREATION_RUN_SHA256

inspect is read-only and prints JSON with exact entries, seals, unsealed sidecars,
dependencies, tools, observed activity, byte totals and holds. Exit 0 means its
checks passed and no activity hold was found. Exit 1 means a failed check or hold;
2 is an argument error. All paths must be canonical absolute paths without
symlink components. Descriptor paths within the JSON are relative to sourceRoot.

create repeats inspection, checks space and activity, then writes to a NEW private
directory whose parent already exists. Source, descriptor and destination must
not overlap. Existing destinations are refused, including incomplete prior runs.
It saves descriptor.json, inventory.json, payload.tar.gz, create.json and
RUN-SHA256SUMS. A fixed NUL-delimited path list prevents implicit selection of
new files or interpretation of filenames as command options. Original selected
entries and source-root identity must still match after copying.

Save the printed runSHA256 separately, for example in the owning workspace note.
It is the SHA-256 of RUN-SHA256SUMS, which covers the other four run files. Pass
that exact value to verify. Never replace the saved trust anchor with a newly
computed value just to make a changed run pass. These hashes detect changes;
they are not a digital signature or proof of authorship. Keep run directories
private and do not concurrently modify them while verifying.

verify uses the saved descriptor/inventory and pinned checksums. It validates
member names, types, exact membership, content and supported metadata headers
before extracting into NEW-RESTORE/payload. It then compares content and metadata
and revalidates the original seal rules. Original source availability is not
required for restore verification; unchanged-original evidence belongs to the
creation receipt. A successful verification writes comparison.json, catalog.json
and VERIFICATION-SHA256SUMS in NEW-RESTORE and prints verificationSHA256. Retain
that checksum separately too. The verification manifest covers catalog.json and
comparison.json; the catalog links the creation trust anchor and original hashes.
Neither manifest hashes itself. Restored payload bytes/metadata are covered by
the pinned inventory and comparison, not by the receipt manifest alone.

Copied, restore-verified, human-reviewed, product-accepted and approved-for-removal
are separate states. Only a successful restore publishes a verified catalog.
Never infer a completed run from payload.tar.gz alone. On interruption, missing
completion manifests or failure receipts mean incomplete output. Handled failures
retain a failure-*.json; a forced process kill may leave only partial files. Retry
with a fresh directory. Nothing is overwritten or automatically cleaned up.

Input format: schemaVersion 1

Required top-level fields (unknown fields are rejected):

  schemaVersion: 1
  packetId: lowercase letters/digits/hyphens, starting with a letter/digit
  sourceRoot: canonical absolute original review root
  include: nonempty array of exact relative files/subtrees; no overlaps/globs
  review: {kind, target, verdict}
  seals: nonempty array of seal rules
  closingRecords: array of {path, sha256?}
  lineage: array of {relationship, reference}
  dependencies: array of dependency records

review.kind is author or independent-review. target is the full 40-character
commit. verdict is the historical verdict, including its original limits; archive
verification must not promote it. lineage records correction/accepted-base/prior
review references. Empty closingRecords, lineage or dependencies arrays are valid.
Do not omit known dependencies merely because they cannot be included.

A JSON seal rule:

  {
    "reader": "files-json-v1",
    "root": "sealed-evidence",
    "manifest": "FILES.json",
    "manifestSHA256": "EXPECTED_64_HEX_DIGEST",
    "seal": "SEAL.json",
    "sealSHA256": "EXPECTED_64_HEX_DIGEST",
    "exclude": ["administrative-readbacks"],
    "immutable": "files",
    "target": "EXPECTED_40_HEX_COMMIT"
  }

Use actual identities from the existing owning evidence, not these placeholders.
Each seal root must be included in full, directly or through a selected ancestor.
Manifest/seal/exclude paths are relative to THAT seal root. Only its exact control
paths are excluded from payload membership; nested reference FILES.json files
remain payload. Excluded subtrees stay in the archive and must be covered by their
own seal or classified explicitly as sidecars/dependencies. Target is optional for
administrative seals that did not record one; if supplied, it must match the review
and the original JSON seal. files-json-v1 checks manifest identity/bytes, exact
payload membership, every file hash/size, aggregate count/bytes and required flags.

For SHA256SUMS use reader sha256sums-v1, manifest SHA256SUMS and its existing
manifestSHA256; omit seal, sealSHA256 and target. Lines use lowercase SHA-256,
two spaces, then an exact relative path. Duplicate paths and malformed entries
fail. Both readers reject unsafe/noncanonical paths and unexpected object types.

immutable is files or all. files requires the immutable flag on payload files
and manifest/seal files. all additionally requires it on the seal root and its
nonexcluded directories. Preserve the original policy; do not weaken it to pass.
Source names beginning ._ are rejected because they collide with macOS archive
metadata names. AppleDouble archive entries are validated against known targets;
metadata records over 16 MiB are unsupported. This is an explicit limit, not a
reason to omit original metadata.

closingRecords identifies individual unsealed verdict/handoff/reverify/closure
files. Optional sha256 pins an existing identity. All file entries are transport
hashed regardless; that does not retroactively place sidecars under an old seal.
Every selected file outside the seal/control sets must be classified explicitly.

Dependencies have kind (git-bundle, source-snapshot, reference or runtime), location
(included or external), description, and optional path/sha256/target. Included
dependencies require a selected relative path; directory references cover their
subtree. External references retain their description/path, with availability
reported as not-verified. They are never followed or copied implicitly.

An included git-bundle requires path, sha256 and the exact target. The tool checks
the bundle header, advertised target, prerequisite list and git bundle verify
against the existing repository containing this tool, without fetching/cloning.
Missing prerequisites block verification; declare the dependency and retain the
original until it can be checked. A bundle with prerequisites is labeled
prerequisite-dependent, never complete. Header verification and transport hashes
do not claim a workload rerun or full product qualification.

Applying existing formats

P1c4 original: two files-json-v1 seals, for sealed-evidence and the sibling
administrative-readbacks. P1c4 correction: the primary seal excludes its nested
administrative-readbacks; a second rule covers that included subtree. Closing
records remain explicit. Existing pilot archives/catalog are historical outputs;
reference their identities rather than migrating or rewriting them.

P1c5 correction: two sha256sums-v1 seals, for sealed-evidence and administration,
using immutable all. Include the separately named source.bundle and enumerate
closing/identity records individually. Keep copied helper/reference evidence
under its existing seal; never execute its sealing scripts. Record prior review
and runtime dependencies even when a complete-history bundle is present.

Future known-format reviews need another description, not another script or
custom archive plan. A named description and destination must be authorized
before a historical packet run. New formats/policies are explicit tooling work.
Whole-parent scans, deduplication, retention schedules and removal are outside
this tool. Retirement needs a separate exact path list and user instruction.

Operational limits

lsof is a point-in-time view of activity visible to the current user, not a global
lock. In-use roots and unknown checks block creation; do not kill processes to
pass. Inspect/create read selected files twice and detect identity/metadata/content
drift, but are not a filesystem snapshot against a hostile concurrent writer.
Keep sources and run outputs quiescent for the operation. Directory age is not
an inactivity test. Space estimates reserve archive/restore headroom; actual
compression savings can be negligible. Same-volume copies do not protect against
disk loss. No network transfer, dependency installation or cloud backup is implied.

Verification

  python3 tooling/test-archive-reviews.py

This runs real macOS fixture round trips for both seal readers, ACL/xattr/flag/
timestamp checks, input/member/corruption failures, bundle classification,
interruption/collision/activity checks and every CLI command above. Tests own and
clean only their temporary fixtures. Historical packet compatibility uses inspect
only. The existing review-directory audit remains unchanged.
